Deploying means making content or software accessible and available for use.

The website that you'll deploy in this course will be public, or "live", on the Internet.

Generated a static site
Deployed it to the Internet (GitHub Pages Server)
Given the website a custom domain name

CREATE A STATIC WEBSITE USING JEKYLL

- Jekyll: Overview

Jekyll is a simple static site generator. 
Using Jekyll is a very common way of generating a "ready-to-publish static website" within seconds.

- Installing Jekyll

Jekyll is a Ruby gem (also known as a RubyGem) and can be installed from the command line. 
knowledge of Ruby is not required in order to complete this course.

Install Jekyll by typing the following command in the terminal:

'gem install jekyll'

Wait for the gem to finish installing before moving onto the next exercise. A successful install will display the following:

'Successfully installed jekyll-3.1.3                                                                                                   
Parsing documentation for jekyll-3.1.3                                                                                                
Installing ri documentation for jekyll-3.1.3                                                                                          
Done installing documentation for jekyll                                                                             
1 gem installed'

- Generate a Static Site

we'll use Jekyll's new command and specify a directory name. 

The directory will contain all of your site's default content that can be customized later.

For example, to generate a website in a directory called my-portfolio-site, we can type:

'jekyll new my-portfolio-site'

The command will create a directory called my-portfolio-site and fill it with Jekyll's site content.

Use the 'ls' command to verify that the directory was successfully generated.

- Preview Your Site Locally

 You can use Jekyll to view your site locally.
 This means that you're viewing the site on your own computer. 
 The site is not, however, available on the public Internet.
 
 You can view your site locally by using Jekyll's serve command, like so:

'jekyll serve'

This command starts a local server that will server the files to your computer. 
The serve command will also come in handy when you want to preview changes you make to your site.

To view your site locally, you must first navigate to your site's directory, using the cd command.

'cd my-portfolio-site'

Next, use the serve command to start a local server.

'jekyll serve'

Then, navigate to http://localhost:4000 in the browser to view your site.

- Jekyll's Directory Structure (https://jekyllrb.com/docs/structure/)

The website that Jekyll generates differs from a website that you'd create on your own. 
It offers a standard directory structure, as well as components that help speed up development.

It's important to understand Jekyll's default directory structure and contents of your site:

_config.yml - This is a configuration file that contains many values that need to be edited only once. 
for example, your site's title, your e-mail, and more. 

_includes/ - This directory contains all the partials (code templates that keep you from repeating your code over and over) 
that your site uses to load common components, like the header and the footer.

_posts/ - This directory is where blog posts are stored. 

_layouts/ - This directory contains templates that are used to style certain types of posts within the site. 
For example, new blog posts will use the HTML layout defined in post.html.


















