DEPLOY YOUR WEBSITE TO GITHUB PAGES

- Create Your Repo

In order to publish your site using GitHub Pages, you'll need to create a repository (repo) on GitHub.

Your repo's name must also follow GitHub Pages' naming convention, otherwise your site will not publish at all.

Specifically, the repo's name must be in the following format:

your-user-name.github.io

- Initialize Your Repo

Great! Now that you've created a repo with the proper naming convention, let's upload your site to GitHub.

In the terminal, open a new tab.

Then, use the cd command to navigate to your site's directory.

Now that you're inside of your site's directory, initialize a Git repository with the following command:

'git init'

- Add the Remote

Next, Git needs to know what repo will store your site's content.

In this case, the repo will be the one you created on GitHub earlier.

To specify the repo using Git, we'll have to add the remote and label it as the origin.

The remote is the URL of the repo that will store your site's contents.

The origin is an alias for the remote. 
You can think of an alias as an abbreviation or a substitute name. 
This means that instead of having to always type the lengthy remote URL over and over again, you can simply refer to it as origin later on.

In the terminal, you can add the remote with the following command:

'git remote add origin https://github.com/your-user-name/your-user-name.github.io.git'

Again, you would replace your-user-name with your actual GitHub username.

- Commit Your Changes

Git also needs to know exactly which files should be pushed to your repo.

In this case, we want to push all of your site's content to the repo. 
This means we will do the following two things (in order):

1. Add all of your site's content to the Git staging area using 'git add .'
2. Commit (save) your changes using 'git commit -m "Save my work"'

- Deploy Your Site

This time, we'll use Git's push command and push the contents of your site up to your repo using the following command:

'git push -u origin master'





